# Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Survival: Predictions based on Classification Machine Learning Algorithms

Data of 548 stage III non-small cell lung cancer patients are available from cancerdata.org. This could provide physicians with survival predictions for individuals with non-small cell lung cancer. The data set of 24 features includes the following variables: age, gender, treatment time, radiation dose, number of positive lymph nodes and tumor volume. These variables were originally selected using a bootstrap method to create a published cox regression model. For this project, a logistic regression model, support vector machine, and clustering model will be created towards survival prediction for individual patients.

A logistic regression model is planned to be ideal because of the target, binary outcome of alive or dead patients. This model is also best considering the larger number of features. Other types of models like a kNN analysis could also prove to work considering that it could classify the outcome. Support Vector Machines will also be used because in theory, it combines the ability of regression and nearest neighbor modeling.

Various types of feature engineering will need to be done. There are two variables with nine missing values each that may likely be removed due to their small number. This is in addition to the removal of outliers as regression models assume linearity. Logarithmic or square root transformations of variables can address skewness or other distributional issues. It’s also important to note that regression models do not work with categorical variables, therefore some form of encoding will need to be done. A decision will be made between one-hot encoding or dummy encoding. Logistic regression is not sensitive to scaling, but standardizing or normalizing continuous variables can improve model training. It is then planned to perform a stepwise elimination method to select a subset of the most important features and prevent overfitting. Confusion matrices then provide a direct way of comparing accurate or inaccurate predictions. Plotting an ROC curve and calculating the area under the curve (AUC) could also evaluate the model because it provides a visual approach.

These processes will provide the framework to creating all three models and prepare an ensemble function to better improve model performance.
